---
title: "My Notes: Git Terminology"
date: 2020-05-25
view: 1
---

## Commit

A snapshot of the files in your project. It does not copy all the
data but only the diff between current and previous versions. Additionally, git saves a history of commits so we can roll back to the
earlier versions. Switching between commits is easy and fast


## Branching
Think of branches in git as pointers. Git branches have no memory overhead. The mantra being

> *branch early, and branch often*

Create a new branch using,

```bash
git branch new_feature
```

```bash
commit0 --> commit1
            |
            *master
            new_feature
```

Checkout the new_feature branch.

```bash
git checkout new_feature
```

Branch and Checkout is very common task so git has a shortcut command for it.

```bash
git checkout -b new_feature`
```
Now add some work and commit

```bash
git commit -m "some commit message."
```

```bash
commit0 --> commit1 --> commit2
            |           |
            master      *new_feature
```


## Merge & Rebasing

Git merges, and rebases are two ways of adding work between branches. Merge
preserves history while rebase provides a more linear view of the commit tree

## Head
Head is a pointer that is pointing to the most recent commit.
"Detaching head" is a standard message received when you checkout a commit
instead of a branch.

If you are on the master branch, then Head will point to master, and master, in
turn, will lead to the commit. E.g.

```
        HEAD --> master --> commit
```
After checking the commit, the head will directly point to the commit, and we are in detached mode.

## Moving between commits
Other than using a hash to move between commits. Another convenient way of moving
up the commit tree is using relative refs.
```bash git checkout HEAD^```  or ```bash git checkout HEAD~1``` will move one
branch above head.
```bashgit checkout HEAD~2``` will move two branches up in the commit tree.

## Ways to undo changes
There are two main ways to go back on changes
- `git reset`:  Move back on in the commit tree
- `git revert`: Will add a new commit with reverting the exact changes that
were made added on the commit
